---
layout: post
title: Stop using iss on burst bombs!
---

# Why only burst bombs?
As far as I know, there are 2 main reasons to use iss.
* Use sub more
* Reserve more ink for main weapon

For many sub weapons, iss makes sense when used for these reasons. Most notably, iss stacks incredibly well on splat bombs, suction bombs, and curling bombs. However, due to the extremely poor stacking of iss on burst bombs, you're almost always better off running more ism or iru than running any amount of iss.

# How bad is the stacking?
First off, let's discuss how iss stacking works. Ink saver sub has three levels of stacking: Low, Mid, and High. The iss stacking level as well as the ability points of iss used determine the *percent change* in the ink consumption of the sub. This means that, even if 2 subs have the same stacking level, more ink will be saved if the base consumption is higher.

Where does burst bomb fit into this? Well, burst bomb not only has the lowest base consumption of all subs, but also has a low iss stacking level. Comparing this with another sub that iss is not reccommended for, autobombs, puts into perspective just how abysmally small the effect is. Autobombs have a higher base ink consumption, meaning the amount saved is larger, and they have mid stacking instead of low.

If you want numbers, 3 mains of iss on low stacking has a 15%[^1] reduction. Applied to burst bomb's base 40% tank consumption, **3 mains only saves 7% of the total ink tank per bomb**.

# What other options are there?
There are other abilities that accomplish the 2 main goals iss normally helps with, that both stack significantly better when applied to burst bomb weapons. For using your sub weapon more, ink recovery is a solid option that also assists main weapon usage greatly. Ink saver main helps with the second main reason, by making it so that the ink left after the bomb is better conserved. Both of these abilities stack significantly better than plain iss.

# Are there any cases where you *should* run iss on burst bombs?
I have not covered the case of triple burst bomb because it's incredibly niche, but it is a case where iss actually can make a significant difference. It takes 3 mains and 2 subs or 2 pures in order to throw 3 burst bombs on a tank. There are almost no weapons I would seriously reccomend it for, but I personally run this whenever I try carbon deco.

[^1]: Calculated using Lean's [param_calc.py](https://github.com/Leanny/Splatoon2Parameter).
